Tools for communication

Trello will be used to allocate and track work and tasks that are assigned during team meetings. Trello will enable us to see how is responsible for each task and notice if a specific tasks has not been accidentally over looked

Microsoft Teams (MS teams) will be used for general communication; brainstorming solutions and voting when necessary to decide a course of action. MS teams will be used to decide who is responsible for a given task or role and to host the weekly pulse check in and team meeting. 

GitHub will be used for documentation and report writing, this has several benefits, firstly we can track individual contributions to the project secondly work is kept online which improves accountability, prevents team members from duplicating work, and prevents work from being lost.

SharePoint will be used to contain the master assignment document which will be the version submitted, This document will be populated from the GitHub documents and then edit as needed. 



Frequency of communication

-------------------------------------------------------------

As a team we have agreed to a twice weekly meetings on Thursdays and Mondays. The Monday pulse check will be informal and are held on the MS team’s chat, team members are expected to post at least one message. Thursday meetings are held over MS teams by video call, team meetings are expected to run for at least 40 minutes and everyone is expected to attend with camera and audio.

For communication out side of these meetings team members are expected to reply within 1 to 4 days of receiving a message. Though active participation in communication is encouraged to enable us to work together effectively 

As a team we understand we all have lives outside of uni and may have other commitments that have to take priority, when this is the case, the team expects to be informed that the team member will be unavailable and will work together to accommodate as needed.  



Weekly workflow

-------------------------------------------------------------

•	Thursday set task and goals for the week

•	Monday check in and discussion on potential issues and roadblocks
  o	Set up Trello for the week
  o	Teams’ members can notify others if they need help with their work and re-assign tasks as needed
  
  

Action plan for unresponsive team members

-------------------------------------------------------------

1.	Within 24 hours: of a team member missing either Monday or Thursday check in.

  a. Send a direct message on Microsoft teams.
  
  b. During the meeting a note will be made that the member is an uncommunicated absentee in the attendee list.
  
2. Within 48 hours: Another team member will check in with the member over the Microsoft team chat.

3.	Within 72 hours: if a team member misses the next team meeting. And the team member has not communicated that they are unable to attend.

  a.	The team will reach out over email and/or over text message (if phone number has been given to another member) to check in and see if they are okay.
  
  b. The team will draft a letter to the faculty and tasks with a close deadline will be reassigned and preliminary plans to reasign work load will be discussed.


  4. After 1 week of no communication: If the team member misses their third meeting without communication we will treat the member as leaving the team and the team will continue the assignment as though the team member has left unless otherwise informed.
  
    a. the email notifiying faculty of the absent team member will be sent

