Decision Making Process

Decision making process from the team regarding the project were defined during the team’s first weekly meeting. The decision was to incorporate a voting system where the team would discuss a problem, or a challenge that may arise and then the team were to collaborate ideas and then vote upon the best solution. If the vote concluded as a draw or came to a standstill the team agreed a team leader had priority over the result, and this was a result.  Each member is expected to vote in the original decision as well as any amendments to an agreed solution.
The process is flexible, and the team can adjust solutions as the project scope evolves. Any disputes are left to a team leader to give a final decision this can overwrite voted solutions. The approach was adopted by the team to ensure that the project success is paramount and can be viable in the real-world adaptation.

Process Breakdown

1.	A problem, solution or challenge was raised and spoken about with the team. The outcomes are to be brainstorms and the best approaches listed.

2.	The solutions get placed into a list on a group chat thread or during a team meeting the team will speak of the options at the time of said meeting.

3.	Evaluation is also communicated on the suggestions verbally during a meeting or written down where deem fits.

4.	Solution is to be voted upon and the team leader will finalise any draws or standstill votes.

5.	Action for the solution is then adhered to where fits and the team will refer to action points documents or verbal agreements.

6.	Any solutions that mitigate risk or causes the project to come to a standstill will cause a revote which will use the same decision-making process and may be replaced if the solution is consuming too much time or resources in the future scope of the project.


Summarised

To summarise the decision-making process works with the team conversing and adapting solutions these decisions are a majority vote system with any tied or standstill votes being referred to the team leader to conclude a result.

Figure

The following flowchart shows the decision process as described in this section.
[INSERT image]
